Competitive programming: Sieve of Eratosthenes (#2487)
girlscript/winter-of-contributing: Competitive_Programming/C++/Maths & Number Theory/Sieve of Eratosthenes/sieve_of_eratosthenes_documentation.md

>20

### output
>2 3 5 7 11 13 17 19

**Time Complexity:O(n*log(log(n)))** \
**Space Complexity:O(n)**

# Sieve of Eratosthenes in Linear Time Complexity
Classic Sieve of Eratosthens normally takes `O(n*log(log(n)))` time to do the required task. But the above code for Sieve of Eratosthenes can be modified for a better linear runtime of `O(n)`. A problem with this algorithm is though the runtime decreases, memory consumtion increases. Thus this algorithm works best for numbers of order `10^7 or less`.

## Source Code
~~~cpp
void linear_sieve(int n){
    //is_prime is a boolean type vector
    is_prime[0]=is_prime[1]=false;
    for(int i=2;i<=n;i++){
        if(is_prime[i]){
            //prime is vector to store all prime numbers separately
            prime.push_back(i);
            //lp array stores smallest prime factor
            //and a prime number is its own smallest prime factor
            lp[i]=i;
         }
         for(int j=0;j<prime.size() && i*prime[j]<=n && prime[j]<=lp[i];j++){
            lp[i*prime[j]]=prime[j];
            //mark all the multiples of 'i' as composites
            is_prime[i*prime[j]]=false;
         }
     }
 } 
 ~~~
 ## Explanatation

>  This algorithm is relatively simple and allows us to factorize number upto n very fast, since we know the smallest prime divisor so we can factorize any number 'i' in ~O(n)~.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This algorithm is relatively simple and allows us to factorize numbers up to n very fast since we know the smallest prime divisor so we can factorize any number 'i' in ~O(n)~.
```
